Funding Circle Coding Challenge

Objective

Write a program that prints out a multiplication table of the first 10 prime number.

● The program must run from the command line and print one table to STDOUT.

● The first row and column of the table should have the 10 primes, with each cell

containing the product of the primes for the corresponding row and column.

Notes

● Consider complexity. How fast does your code run? How does it scale?

● Consider cases where we want N primes.

● Do not use the Prime class from stdlib (write your own code).

● Write tests. Try to demonstrate TDD/BDD.

● If you’re using external dependencies please specify those dependencies and how to

install them.

● Please package your code, OR include running instructions.

When you’re done

Put your code on GitHub or email us a zip/tarball.

Thanks!

Solution:

Classes:

FundingCircleChallenge.rb - This class is what we run in the command line. It is the class that puts all the other classes together to solve the problem given.

Integer.rb - I created this class to add the is_prime? method to the class Integer. This was useful when figuring out if an integer is a prime number or not. Did this because I felt that is_prime? was more of an Integer method than a prime method.. Also, would be easier to use somewhere else in the codebase.

Prime.rb - This class was created to handle them prime specific methods. The method I created returns a list of prime numbers starting from 2. Other method that can be added could be list_of_odd which returns a lits of the first n odd prime numbers. Made the list method a class method since we don't need an instance of the object to get this list.

MultiplicationTable.rb - This class is what stores the data for a Multiplication Table. This includes the numbers being multiplied and the created table with the multiplied values. and can manipulate the data in different forms with different methods if we desire.  I decided to save the multiplied values in a 2D array instead of just printing out the table because this allowed me to test that the table was being created correctly easier.

Other Questions:

Time Complexity:
The time it takes to find if a number is prime is sqrt(n) since we want to find the first n prime numbers the Time Complexity = n*sqrt(n).

Running Program
1. Clone directory and cd into it
2. Run test $ruby tests/all_tests.rb 
3. Print multiplication table with first 10 prime numbers $ruby funding_circle_challenge.rb prime 10


